Variables/Assignments Summary

This chapter's key points included:

    A variable declaration declares a new variable, specifying the variable's name and type.
    An assignment statement assigns the variable on the left-side of the = with the current value of the right-side expression.
    An expression is a combination of items, like variables, literals, operators, and parentheses, that evaluates to a value.
    A name created by a programmer for an item like a variable or function is called an identifier, which must follow certain rules to be valid. Programmers typically follow identifier naming conventions that are defined by their company, team, teacher, etc.
    An expression is evaluated using precedence rules that follow the evaluation order of standard mathematics.
    Incremental development is the process of writing and and testing a small amount of code, then writing and testing a small amount more (an incremental amount), and so on.
    A variable declared as type float stores a floating-point number, which is a real number, like 98.6, 0.0001, or -666.667.
    A programmer should choose a variable's type based on the type of value held. Integer variables are typically used for values that are counted. Floating-point variables are typically used for values that are measured or when dealing with fractions of countable items, such as the average number of cars per household.
    Programming languages typically have built-in functions to perform common operations needed by programmers, such as performing mathematical operations like square root or raising a number to a power.
    A function is a list of statements executed by invoking the function's name, with such invoking known as a function call.
    Programming languages typically have built-in functions for generating random numbers. The integers generated by a random number generator are known as pseudo-random. "Pseudo" means "not actually, but having the appearance of". Internally, the RandomNumber() function has an equation to compute the next "random" integer from the previous one.
    When the operands of / are both integers, the operator performs integer division, which does not generate any fraction.
    For integer division, the second operand of / or % must never be 0, because division by 0 is mathematically undefined. A divide-by-zero error occurs at runtime if a divisor is 0, causing a program to terminate.
    A type conversion is a conversion of one data type to another, such as an integer to a float.
    zyFlowchart, and other programming languages, automatically performs several common conversions between integer and float types, and such automatic conversion is known as implicit conversion.
    If a programmer needs to explicitly convert an item's type, the programmer can use a type cast to converts value of one type to another type.
    The modulo operator (%) evaluates to the remainder of the division of two integer operands.
    A constant is a named value item that holds a value that cannot change. Constants are commonly used in programs to hold the value of mathematical constants or a value that should not change during the program's execution.

