# Objects: introduction 
	
* abstract data type is a data type whose creation and update are constrained to a specific well-defined operations. 

# 8.3 Unified Modeling Language 
* The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a modeling language for software design that uses different types of diagrams to visualize the structure and behavior of programs.
	* Structural diagram Lays out static elements of software. Vars, functuons.
	
	* behavioral diagram Gives a visual representation of behavior of software.   
		* Sequence diagram : Behavioral diagram that shows interaction between software components and indicates the order of events.
	
	* activity diagram : Flow char like in zyFlowchart. 
	
	* Use case diagram : Illustrates how a user will interact with a program.  
	
	* Class diagram: Depicts a class name, data members, and functions.
	
	* UML is commonly used in various phases of the systems development life cycle (SDLC) 
		* Analysis -> Design -> implementation -> Testing 
		  Use case -> Class diagram -> Activity diagram -> sequence diagram
# 8.5 Comparing the waterfall and agile approaches 
	
* SDLC Deliverables 
	* The waterfall and agile approaches have similar phases, and thus similar deliverables. Alternatively, the spiral approach may iterate through one cycle for each major component of the software, hence deliverables being functioning components rather than a finished software product.
	*  produces a **software requirements specification** (SRS), a document describing all requirements for the software product. An SRS commonly has UML diagrams for several of the software product's use cases.

