

Disk Management Console

The disk subsystem stores all the information generated by installing the operating system and using software applications to create data files. As the primary store of so much data, ensuring the reliability and performance of the disk subsystem is a critical management task.

The Disk Management (diskmgmt.msc) console displays a summary of any fixed and removable disks—hard disk drives (HDDs), solid state drives (SSDs), and optical drives—attached to the system. HDDs and SSDs can be divided into logical partitions. Each partition is represented as a volume in the top pane.

Disk Management console. (Screenshot courtesy of Microsoft.)

The terminology of drives, volumes, and partitions can be confusing. Partitions are configured on HDDs and SSDs. A volume is a logical storage unit made available to the OS. There could be a simple 1:1 mapping between a partition and a volume. However, a volume can also be created using a redundant drive configuration (RAID) where there are actually multiple devices and partitions supporting the volume. In Windows, “drive” refers to a volume that has been mapped to a letter. However, drive is very frequently used to mean a hardware storage device too.

One of the disks (typically Disk 0) will be the one holding the operating system. This disk will have at least three volumes:

    The system volume contains the operating system files and is usually allocated the drive letter C:.  
    The boot volume contains the files used to boot the OS. This typically uses a boot system called extensible firmware interface (EFI). It is not usually assigned a drive letter.
    Recovery partitions contain tools to repair a damaged installation and/or return the computer to its factory state. These can either contain the PC vendor’s tool or Microsoft’s Windows Recovery Environment (WinRE). They are not usually assigned drive letters.

The Disk Management console supports the following disk and partitioning tasks:

    Initializing disks—If you add an unformatted HDD, SSD, or thumb drive, you will be prompted to initialize it. You can choose whether to use the master boot record (MBR) or Globally Unique ID (GUID) Partition Table (GPT) partition style for the new disk. MBR and GPT refer to the way the partition information is stored on the disk.
    Partitioning—Each disk must be configured with at least one partition. You can create a new partition by right-clicking on an area of unpartitioned space. A wizard will prompt you to choose how much of the unallocated space to use and to select a file system.
    Formatting—A new partition must be written with a file system—typically NTFS—to allow Windows to write and read files. The simpler FAT32 file system might be used for small, removable drives. You can also reformat existing partitions. This will delete all files from the volume. Along with the file system type, you can choose a volume label and allocation unit size.

The smallest unit of storage on a fixed disk has traditionally been the 512-byte sector. A file system is not restricted to using a single sector as the basic unit of storage, however. The file system can group sectors into allocation units/clusters of 2, 4, or 8 sectors. Smaller clusters make more efficient use of the disk capacity, but using larger clusters can improve file input/output (I/O) performance, especially when working with large files. As fixed disk sizes have increased, some disk models now use Advanced Format, with 4 kilobyte (4K) sector sizes. If supported by the OS and PC firmware, these can be used in native mode; if not, the drive controller will usually present the disk in 512 emulated (512e) mode.

You cannot format or delete system or boot partitions. During setup, the boot partition must be formatted as NTFS, and the system partition must be formatted as FAT32.

    Repartitioning—Existing partitions can be expanded if there is unpartitioned space. Partitions can also be removed or shrunk to make space available.
    Configuring dynamic disks—If there is more than one disk available, a new dynamic volume can be configured. Dynamic volumes use multiple devices to implement some type of software RAID redundancy, such as mirroring.



The dynamic disks feature is deprecated. The Storage Spaces feature is now the preferred method of configuring redundant disk configurations.



#storage #windows
